AI Guidebook

Version 5.0

CPS Mission:

To provide a high-quality public
education for every child, in every
neighborhood, that prepares each
for success in college, career,
and civic life.

AI GUIDEBOOK

2

Table of Contents
I. Introduction
Purpose
Scope
Vision
AI Principles
AI Literacy
AI Basics

II. GenAI Guidance
General Guidance for All Stakeholders
Guidance for Students
Guidance for Parents & Guardians
Guidance for Educators and Staff
Guidance for Administrators
Guidance for ITS
Guidance for Vendors

III. Approved Generative AI Tools
IV. Professional Development
Badge Pathway
Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)

V. Conclusion
VI. Appendix

AI GUIDEBOOK

3

I. Introduction

AI GUIDEBOOK

4

Introduction

Introduction
Chicago Public Schools (CPS) is excited to share
our guidebook for the responsible adoption of
artificial intelligence (AI) and generative artificial
intelligence (GenAI) across our District. AI offers
unprecedented opportunities to enhance classroom
interaction, personalize learning experiences,
and foster an innovative learning environment
for our students. CPS is committed to integrating
these tools ethically and responsibly, ensuring
that they align with our educational goals and
standards while upholding the safety and privacy
of our community.

The following document outlines our initial approach
to AI integration, including guidelines for ethical
use and pedagogical strategies. This guidebook
will be regularly reviewed and revised to reflect
stakeholder input, best practices, and advances
in AI technology. CPS will also provide faculty and
staff with continuous professional development
opportunities to support its implementation. For
additional information, please visit the CPS AI
Guidebook website at cps.edu/aiguidebook.

Faculty are encouraged to actively engage with AI
tools as a means of uncovering new ways of teaching
and learning, while building students’ AI literacy.
CPS will support this engagement by providing the
necessary resources, guidance, and tools to innovate
responsibly within our educational framework.

AI GUIDEBOOK

5

Introduction

Purpose
The purpose of the CPS AI guidelines is to ensure
the legal, ethical, and pedagogically sound use of AI
technology within the District. This document aims to
empower staff to responsibly explore and leverage this
new technology to enhance educational outcomes and
improve the daily student experience.
We aim for this document to guide CPS employees in maintaining
high standards of integrity and compliance when engaging with AI
technologies, by:
Defining our District’s vision for AI adoption
Stating prohibited uses of AI for different stakeholders across the District
Identifying acceptable uses of AI for planning and instruction along with
opportunities for professional development
Clarifying employee responsibilities concerning the use or development
of AI applications
This guidance is issued in partnership between the CPS Office of Teaching and Learning and
Department of Information and Technology Services in accordance with the authority granted
under the Board’s Information Security Policy, 19-0828-P01. This guidance will be reviewed
every three months to ensure it remains aligned with technological advancements, changes in
legal requirements, and feedback from our school communities.

AI GUIDEBOOK

6

Introduction

Scope
This guidance governs the use of AI applications,
software, and models by employees, students,
contractors, volunteers, and third-party vendors.
It ensures that all interactions with AI technologies are conducted in
accordance with CPS standards, regardless of the device used, and it
applies to:
AI models and applications developed internally, by third parties,
or obtained from public sources
The use of AI applications for CPS-related tasks, both inside and
outside of the classroom
The handling of CPS information within these applications

AI GUIDEBOOK

7

Introduction

Vision
In our pursuit of educational excellence and innovation,
CPS has committed to integrating AI technologies to
complement our organizational operations, support
our instructional core, and drive community engagement.
This strategic adoption of AI aims to enrich learning
environments and empower our students, educators,
school leaders, and community members, enhancing
both teaching and learning experiences.
This initiative aims to prepare every student for success in a continually evolving
technological world, while steadfastly upholding the District’s commitment
to data privacy, security, and academic integrity. By leveraging AI responsibly,
we aim to enhance educational outcomes and ensure our community is wellprepared to navigate the complexities of the modern world.

AI GUIDEBOOK

8

Introduction

AI Principles
Our AI Principles provide a
foundation for the responsible,
inclusive, and effective use of
AI in education. Grounded in
equity, ethics, and continuous
improvement, these principles
guide how AI is integrated into
classrooms, operations, and
decision-making, ensuring that
its impact supports students,
empowers educators, and
strengthens our communities.

1. Equitable and Accessible
We are committed to ensuring equitable access
to AI education and resources for all students,
educators, and families, regardless of background
or circumstance.
We will actively work to bridge the digital divide
and eliminate barriers to AI literacy, ensuring that
AI benefits all members of our community.
We will strive to mitigate bias and discrimination in AI
systems, promoting inclusive and culturally responsive
AI applications.

2. Ethical and Transparent
We will prioritize ethical considerations in the design, development, and implementation of AI
systems, ensuring fairness, legitimacy, honesty, impartiality, transparency, and accountability.
We will promote responsible data practices, adhering to privacy-by-design principles, and protect
the privacy and security of student and staff information.
 e will ensure that users are informed when they are interacting with AI-enabled systems and,
W
where appropriate, explain how AI arrived at its results and the reasoning behind them.
We will carefully consider the level of explainability and transparency needed in different contexts,
balancing factors such as intellectual property protection, risk management, and accuracy.
We will closely monitor the behavior of AI systems to prevent unintended consequences and ensure
they are used for their intended purpose.
We will foster collaboration and engagement among students, educators, staff, families, and the
community to ensure that AI initiatives are developed and implemented in a transparent, inclusive,
and ethical manner.

AI GUIDEBOOK

9

Introduction

AI Principles
3. Human-Centered and Socially Beneficial
We will leverage AI to personalize learning experiences, empower students to take ownership of their
education, and foster critical thinking and problem-solving skills, while ensuring that AI augments,
rather than replaces, the essential role of educators.
 e will ensure that AI solutions are designed to support human goals and objectives, with human
W
needs in mind, and that they align with human goals and needs while fostering a positive impact
on society.
We will maintain human oversight of AI systems, ensuring that there is always an option for human
intervention and that AI augments, rather than replaces, human capabilities.
We will consider the broader societal impact of AI and strive to ensure that its development and
adoption are socially beneficial, enhancing educational outcomes, promoting equity, and preparing
students for success in a rapidly evolving world.
We will empower students to become informed and responsible citizens in an AI-powered world.

4. Continuous Improvement and
Innovation
We will foster a culture of innovation
and continuous improvement, encouraging
experimentation and exploration of AI’s
potential to enhance teaching and learning.
We will remain adaptable and responsive
to the evolving AI landscape, integrating
new technologies and best practices as
they emerge.
 e will collaborate with external partners,
W
including universities, research institutions,
EdTech nonprofits, and industry leaders, to
advance AI education and research.

AI GUIDEBOOK

5. Accountable and Sustainable
We will establish clear lines of accountability
for the development, deployment, and use
of AI systems, ensuring ethical conduct in
their behavior and taking responsibility for
addressing potential issues.
We will implement robust testing and
monitoring programs to ensure that AI
systems behave as intended and to address
potential issues proactively.
We recognize the environmental impact of AI
models and will actively seek ways to reduce
their negative effects, such as excessive
energy and water consumption.

10

Introduction

AI Literacy
What is AI Literacy?
AI Literacy represents a comprehensive understanding
of AI’s capabilities, limitations, ethical implications, and
societal impact, as represented by these five pillars:

Foundational Knowledge
Understanding core AI concepts, terminology, and
different types of AI technologies.

Foundational
Knowledge

Practical Application
Developing the skills to effectively and responsibly use
AI tools, including how to evaluate and integrate them
into workflows.

Practical
Application

Ethical Awareness
Recognizing the ethical considerations including bias,
fairness, transparency, data privacy, and AI’s impact
on society.

Ethical
Awareness

Critical Thinking
Developing the ability to critically analyze AI-generated
information, evaluate its reliability, understand its
limitations, and mitigate potential risks.

Critical
Thinking

Future-Oriented Perspective
Understanding the evolving nature of AI and its potential
to shape the future of education and society by developing
a growth mindset and a willingness to adapt.

AI GUIDEBOOK

Future-Oriented
Perspective

11

Introduction

AI Literacy
Why does AI Literacy Matter?
Educational Transformation
The rapid introduction of AI tools into classrooms presents both opportunities
and challenges. Students must develop critical thinking and digital literacy
skills to effectively evaluate and utilize AI-generated content, while teachers
need to adapt their pedagogical approaches to purposefully integrate AI into
their lessons.
Career Readiness
AI is causing significant changes in the job market, making AI literacy
an essential skill for the future workforce. Traditional job roles are increasingly
being transformed by the integration of AI tools and technologies. This shift
necessitates that students and staff acquire AI literacy to thrive in their
future careers.
Digital Citizenship
AI is increasingly prevalent in our daily lives, impacting our decisions in subtle
and overt ways. It is essential to cultivate information literacy that encompasses
AI, enabling us to critically evaluate and utilize AI-generated content. Ethical
considerations must guide our use of AI tools, ensuring that they are used
responsibly and for the betterment of society. Understanding the broader
community impact of AI technologies allows us to anticipate and address
potential consequences, fostering a just and equitable digital future.
Educational Equity
AI has the potential to both exacerbate and alleviate existing educational
inequities. Access to AI tools and training must be universal, ensuring all
students, regardless of socioeconomic status, background, or location, have
the opportunity to develop crucial AI literacy skills. Thoughtful implementation
of AI in education can personalize learning and support diverse learning needs,
but we must proactively mitigate biases embedded in algorithms and datasets
to avoid perpetuating or amplifying systemic inequalities.

AI GUIDEBOOK

12

Introduction

AI Basics
Artificial Intelligence (AI) leverages computing power to mimic human
cognitive functions such as problem-solving and decision-making. This
technology encompasses several elements, including learning from data,
human feedback, and recognizing patterns through machine learning—a
subset of AI where algorithms enable systems to enhance their performance
over time without human guidance. AI systems also have the ability to perceive
and interpret sensory data, using tools like cameras and microphones.
Generative AI (GenAI) is a subset of artificial
intelligence. GenAI generates new content—including
text, audio, code, images, or videos—based on vast
amounts of “training” data, typically derived from
the internet. Users are able to request and refine
specific content via prompts—inputs or queries
submitted to the model. Such technology not
only supports creative educational tools but also
enhances internet search capabilities and word
processing, offering students and faculty unique
ways to engage with media.

CPS plans to integrate a variety of GenAI tools
into our daily operations. Public GenAI tools, such
as ChatGPT, are freely available to anyone on the
internet. Internal GenAI tools are restricted to
specific users within an organization or domain,
such as Google’s Gemini Enterprise, a paid addon for Google Workspace. We may also engage
with Vendor GenAI from third-party providers, such
as Aleks, which require usage and data handling to
be governed by strict contracts that align with our
District’s standards and policies.

It is important to address the ethics of AI. Ethical
AI means developing and deploying these
technologies with a steadfast commitment to
fairness, transparency, and accountability, ensuring
that they positively impact society. This is crucial,
as biases in AI training data can inadvertently
perpetuate discrimination. Whether these biases are
intentional or not, these systems and their outputs
require rigorous scrutiny and correction.

As CPS embraces the transformative potential
of GenAI in education, we are excited about the
possibilities this technology offers for enhancing
teaching and learning. We recognize the importance
of maintaining the integrity of our educational
practices and the originality of human thought. Our
intent in creating this guidance is to enable staff and
students to use GenAI to innovate and expand their
capacity for teaching and learning. We are committed
to preparing our students for a future in which they
Moreover, the trustworthiness of outputs from GenAI
may seamlessly integrate technology and human
systems is a critical concern, as GenAI models
creativity, and we encourage our educators and
can sometimes produce “hallucinations,” false
students to safely and ethically explore and adopt
or misleading information that appears correct at
AI with enthusiasm and confidence.
first glance. Such outputs require careful review to
prevent the dissemination of misleading information.

AI GUIDEBOOK

13

II. GenAI Guidance

AI GUIDEBOOK

14

GenAI Guidance

General Guidance for All Stakeholders
Privacy, Security, and Confidentiality
When using GenAI tools, it is crucial to understand that
any information provided—whether through prompts
entered by the user or AI-generated responses—
could potentially be used by companies to train their
models. This includes personal details of students,
families, employees, and any proprietary or confidential
information belonging to CPS. Assume that all
information shared with a GenAI application will be used
to train the model and could become accessible in the
public domain.
To safeguard privacy and maintain confidentiality,
you should:
Always inform others when using GenAI tools that may
impact their data and request their permission before
doing so (i.e. meeting notetakers). Never input
personally identifiable information or protected
health information into GenAI tools.
Never input confidential, sensitive or legally
protected information into GenAI tools.
Legally protected information would include,
though is not limited to, information contained in a
student’s record; information that identifies students,
employees, and other individuals; information contained
in an employee’s record; proprietary information; etc.
Never input copyrighted material or proprietary CPS
intellectual property into GenAI tools.
Staff: Contact your manager or the IT Service Desk
at (773) 553-3925 if you are unsure whether information
you are planning to input falls into any of the above categories.

AI GUIDEBOOK

15

GenAI Guidance

General Guidance for All Stakeholders
Verification of the GenAI Tool’s Output
GenAI tools generate outputs based on their training
from large and diverse data sets, which may include
publicly available information. These outputs,
while innovative, can contain fictitious elements
(“hallucinations”) and may inadvertently include
copyrighted or proprietary content.
To ensure responsible use:
Always verify the accuracy and appropriateness of GenAI content before
sharing.
Avoid using any GenAI outputs that might contain copyrighted material without
clear ownership. This can be accomplished by, for example, examining the work
for a copyright notice, considering the type of content and source (i.e. content
issued by the US government is generally public), or referring to websites that
store public domain works or the Copyright Database.

Bias and Fairness
AI models reflect the biases present in their training
data, which can lead to outputs that unintentionally
perpetuate stereotypes or discrimination. This is contrary to
CPS’ commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion.
To uphold our values:

Conduct thorough reviews to ensure outputs are not only accurate, but also
free of unintended biases and align with our educational goals.
Verify and assess the source information that GenAI outputs are relying
upon.
Be vigilant of biases in GenAI outputs, particularly when these tools are
used for decision-making or data analysis.
By adhering to these guidelines, CPS ensures that GenAI technologies are
used in a manner that is safe, ethical, and beneficial for our entire community.

AI GUIDEBOOK

If you would like support
in determining if GenAI
outputs are demonstrating
bias or how to correct for it,
contact the Office of Equity
at equity@cps.edu.

16

GenAI Guidance

General Guidance for All Stakeholders
Approved Tools and Permissions
Approved GenAI tools can be found in the Ed Tech
Catalog.
Access to GenAI tools is governed by all relevant federal,
state, and local laws (FERPA, COPPA, SOPPA, etc.),
along with District policy. Under SOPPA, all educational
technology tools, including those that leverage GenAI,
are reviewed, approved, and listed in the CPS Ed Tech
Catalog. Parents and guardians must consent for their
child to use specific GenAI tools through individual school
opt-out practices. Schools are encouraged to use or
adapt an existing opt-out form if one already exists. If not,
this opt-out sample form can be customized.

AI GUIDEBOOK

17

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Students
In this section, we outline clear guidelines to ensure that
our students uphold the values of CPS when using AI.

Approved Tools and Permissions
Students may only use GenAI tools that have been vetted and approved by CPS,
as reflected in the CPS Ed Tech Catalog.
A GenAI tool’s approval within the Ed Tech Catalog is a reflection that it meets
the District’s standards for privacy, security, and confidentiality in compliance
with all applicable state and federal laws. However, it does not reflect that the
tool meets the District’s academic standards for verification, bias, or fairness.
Students, staff, and guardians should refer to the badges associated with each
tool to understand when a tool may not meet these standards.
Students must obtain permission from their teacher before using GenAI tools
to complete any assignment.

AI GUIDEBOOK

18

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Students
Academic Integrity
While responsible GenAI use can assist in learning,
students should submit work that is fundamentally their
own. Students should clearly identify any AI-generated
content that they have used in their assignments.
Students are required to cite the use of GenAI in their
academic work and specify how they used it. Failing to
do so will be considered a violation of the Student Code
of Conduct and will be addressed on a case-by-case
basis according to individual school policy.
School reviews of each case will generally include:
Gathering information about the suspected incident, including providing
the student with an opportunity to explain their actions.
Making reasonable efforts to contact parents/guardians to discuss
the incident before assigning consequences.
Determining consequences based on the needs and rights of all parties.

Ethical Use and Digital Citizenship
Students must use GenAI tools ethically. Students
should never use GenAI tools to create inappropriate
or harmful content. Students must follow the Student
Acceptable Use Policy whenever they use GenAI tools,
just as they should when using any other information
technology resources. Violations of these guidelines,
including the misuse of AI to generate offensive or
damaging material, will result in disciplinary actions,
which may range from a warning to more severe
penalties depending on the nature of the infraction,
pursuant to the Student Code of Conduct.
AI GUIDEBOOK

19

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Students
Positive GenAI Use for Students
In compliance with the copyright guidance shared in
previous sections, students may want to consider using
GenAI in the following ways:
Collaboration

Use GenAI as a brainstorming partner.
Summarize ideas expressed during a small group discussion.
Generate timelines and task lists for group projects.
Synthesize a variety of opinions and propose compromise solutions.

Creativity

Use GenAI image creators to bring ideas to life.
Create digital media, such as videos and music,
with GenAI-powered design tools.
Overcome writer’s block by suggesting a variety of ideas
and writing prompts.
Ask GenAI to propose unconventional solutions to problems.

Learning

Generate extra practice questions and study guides to review content.
Use GenAI as an interactive tutor.
Use generative search engines like Perplexity as a research assistant
to gather, summarize, and cite information efficiently.
Generate immediate feedback on first drafts of written assignments.

AI GUIDEBOOK

20

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Students
Monitoring and Consequences
Usage of GenAI tools will be governed under the
SOPPA model, wherein teachers are responsible for
monitoring student use of approved technologies. Misuse
of GenAI tools will be addressed in accordance with the
Student Acceptable Use Policy and CPS’ Student Code
of Conduct, which may include warnings or removal of
access to tools.
These guidelines ensure that students at CPS use GenAI
technologies responsibly, contributing positively to their
educational environment.

AI GUIDEBOOK

21

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Parents & Guardians
AI tools are rapidly evolving, offering both opportunities and challenges
for students. CPS is committed to integrating these tools in ways that
prioritize student safety, academic integrity, and responsible use. To achieve
this, teachers are being trained to incorporate GenAI tools into instruction
effectively, ensuring they enhance learning while maintaining academic
rigor. CPS also values open communication and collaboration, encouraging
parents and guardians to engage in meaningful conversations with their
children and teachers about the use of GenAI in education. Your insights,
questions, and concerns are vital as we navigate this evolving landscape
together. CPS is dedicated to creating a safe, supportive, and innovative
learning environment where AI tools can enhance educational opportunities
while respecting family values and promoting ethical practices.
Age-Appropriate and Approved Tools
CPS staff ensure that students use GenAI tools
that are appropriate for their age and maturity level.
Teachers will adhere to age restrictions and only use
tools suitable for students. To ensure the safety and
security of student data, CPS rigorously evaluates all
educational technology.
(EdTech) tools. Only tools that meet strict standards
for data privacy, security, and confidentiality are
approved for use. The CPS Ed Tech Catalog provides
a comprehensive list of these vetted tools, along with
details about their data privacy practices. For more
information and to view approved GenAI tools, visit
the CPS Ed Tech Catalog.

CPS expects students to produce original work and
properly acknowledge any use of AI. Misrepresenting
AI-generated work as one’s own or unauthorized use
of GenAI for assignments is considered a violation of
academic integrity. Such violations will be addressed
in accordance with the Student Acceptable Use
Policy and Student Code of Conduct, in addition to
individual school policies. Discussing these principles
with your children can help foster a strong sense of
accountability and responsible online behavior.
Opt-Out Options

Schools will clearly communicate information
about the GenAI tools used in classrooms and the
procedures for opting out if you prefer your child not
use them. Schools are encouraged to use or adapt
Responsible Use and Academic Integrity
an existing opt-out form if one already exists, and a
CPS promotes responsible digital citizenship and sample that can be customized has been provided
ethical behavior when using GenAI tools. Students are here. Your participation in this process helps ensure
expected to respect copyright laws, avoid plagiarism, that your child’s educational experience aligns with
and refrain from generating inappropriate or harmful your family’s values and preferences.
content. While GenAI tools can support learning,
AI GUIDEBOOK

22

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Educators & Staff
As educators and staff at CPS, GenAI tools present an
opportunity to elevate our educational delivery and
streamline administrative tasks. Guided by the principles
outlined in our Implementation Framework, we strive
to harness these technologies in ways that enhance
efficiency and amplify the educational experiences rooted
in our high-quality curricular materials.

Ethical and Responsible Use
As role models, it is imperative that our staff exemplify ethical and responsible
usage of GenAI tools. This includes maintaining transparency by appropriately
citing or disclosing the use of GenAI and ensuring the content generated is
suitable for educational purposes. Additionally, staff must not enter confidential
data into GenAI tools, including but not limited to student record information,
confidential employee information, and any identifying information. As a further
precaution, staff are advised to turn off chat history and data training in the
settings of any GenAI tool used in their professional practice.

Tool Approval and Use
Staff members are required to use only GenAI tools that have been vetted and
approved by CPS, as reflected in the CPS Ed Tech Catalog. A tool’s approval within
the Ed Tech Catalog reflects that it meets the District’s standards for privacy,
security, and confidentiality in compliance with all applicable state and federal
laws. However, it does not reflect that the tool meets the District’s academic
standards for verification, bias, or fairness. Educators and staff should refer to
the badges associated with each tool to understand when a tool may not meet
these standards. This policy ensures that the tools align with our educational
goals and adhere to our rigorous data privacy and security standards.

AI GUIDEBOOK

23

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Educators & Staff
Age Appropriate Usage
GenAI tools, whether publicly available or subscription
based, typically set age restrictions in their Privacy Policy
or Terms and Conditions. Before encouraging your
students to interact with any tools, make sure to review
the terms to ensure compliance with them. Below is a list
of mainstream tools and their respective restrictions for
your awareness:
Tool (company)

No Access

Parental Consent

No Permission
Needed

ChatGPT (OpenAI)

Under 13

Parental consent must be
obtained for students 13–17

18+

Claude (Anthropic)

Under 18

N/A - no access under 18

18+

Gemini (Google)

N/A

Parental consent must be
obtained for students

18+

Copilot (Microsoft)

Under 18

N/A - no access under 18

18+

Perplexity

Under 13

Parental consent must be
obtained for students 13–17

18+

AI GUIDEBOOK

24

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Educators & Staff
Monitoring Student Use
Staff using GenAI tools with students are responsible
for ensuring that students engage with these
tools responsibly, maintaining an awareness of
age limitations and permissions, and clearly
communicating expectations to students and
families. School staff should report instances
of misuse to their principal or designee, and
be prepared to develop alternate activities that
do not require the use of GenAI for students
who lose the privilege of GenAI access or whose
families do not consent.
GenAI detection software can be a tool to identify potential plagiarism or AIgenerated work, but staff and administrators are encouraged to use it with
caution and with awareness of its limitations. These tools are not foolproof
and can frequently produce false positives, incorrectly flagging student work.
For example, current AI detection software can disproportionately flag work
completed by English Learners (ELs) due to linguistic differences or patterns
that the software misinterprets as AI-generated content. Overreliance on these
tools could lead to unfounded accusations of academic dishonesty, erode
trust between teachers and students, and unfairly penalize certain groups
of students. It is recommended instead to prioritize a holistic assessment of
student work, considering multiple factors like the writing process, individual
student progress, and direct conversations, rather than relying solely on
GenAI detection software in an effort to ensure that students are maintaining
academic integrity.

AI GUIDEBOOK

25

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Educators & Staff
Opportunities to Incorporate GenAI in the Classroom
As with any new student-facing technology, the
introduction of GenAI tools invites educators to consider
how GenAI can further the underlying goals of their
activities and assignments instead of impeding them.
Educators may want to consider how activities can be
modified in the following ways:
Elementary
School

Without GenAI

With GenAI

Literacy

Students complete a
character analysis after
reading a book

After reading a book, the teacher uses GenAI to create
an interactive character persona and conducts a
teacher-led, whole-class “interview” where students can
ask questions about the character’s motivations and
feelings during the story.

Math

Teacher uses generic word
problems provided by the
curriculum for all students.

Teacher creates customized word problems tailored to
the current unit of study and individual students’ unique
needs and interests for intervention and continuing
practice.

Science

Students research an
animal species and create
a poster or presentation
using images from the
internet.

Students create prompts describing the habitat, diet,
and survival adaptations of an animal species, which
the teacher inputs into an AI image generator to create
visuals for posters or presentations. Students evaluate
the accuracy of the images as a whole class or in small
group discussions.

Social
Science

Students watch videos
and complete worksheets
about the role of
community leaders.

Students take on the roles of civic leaders and
participate in a teacher-led discussion in which an AI
chatbot is prompted to ask students age-appropriate
questions about how they would set up an ideal
community.

AI GUIDEBOOK

26

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Educators & Staff
Opportunities to Incorporate GenAI in the Classroom
Middle
School

Without GenAI

With GenAI

Literacy

Students use various levels
of background knowledge
and content understanding
to make inferences about
characters’ points of view in
a story.

Students use GenAI under teacher supervision to
explore point of view by generating descriptions
of the plot from various characters in a story
and comparing/contrasting them in small group
discussions.

Math

Teacher manually designs
and delivers interventions for
individual students.

Students engage with GenAI tutors under teacher
supervision to target and strengthen developing skills.

Science

Teacher gathers materials
and sets up physical lab
equipment for students to
conduct experiments.

Under supervision, students use GenAI to carry
out virtual experiments, hypothesizing, and
testing outcomes without the need of physical lab
equipment.

Social
Science

Students write a report
about their cultural heritage

Students work under teacher supervision with an
AI image generator to create and critique images
reflecting their personal cultural heritage, which are
then shared in presentations or multimedia projects.

AI GUIDEBOOK

27

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Educators & Staff
Opportunities to Incorporate GenAI in the Classroom
High
School

Without GenAI

With GenAI

Literacy

Students must wait for
teacher feedback before
revising an essay or report.

Students use GenAI independently to receive instant
feedback on the first draft of an essay or report,
allowing them to immediately move on to revising
their work.

Math

Students are exposed to
limited descriptions and
definitions of complex
mathematical concepts in a
lecture or textbook.

Students use GenAI tools independently to explore
advanced mathematical concepts and ask questions
until they achieve understanding (e.g., descriptions
of the types of problems that can be solved using
derivatives.

Science

Students spend weeks
conducting research projects
and conducting physical
experiments.

Teachers facilitate unsupervised use of GenAI by
students to conduct in-depth research projects,
utilizing AI to quickly gather data, analyze results, and
simulate experiments.

Social
Science

Students conduct internet
research on current events.

Students independently use a generative search
engine to conduct an in-depth analysis of current
events, exploring a variety of perspectives on the
issue and synthesizing these into a presentation or
debate.

Going forward, this guide will be updated to include new
tools, updated age appropriate guidelines, and examples
within the District’s Skyline curriculum of activities that
demonstrate this shift.

AI GUIDEBOOK

28

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Administrators
As leaders within Chicago Public Schools, administrators
play a critical role in overseeing the use and
governance of Generative AI tools. In addition to
adhering to all previously outlined guidelines applicable to
all stakeholders and staff, administrators have additional
responsibilities to ensure these tools are used ethically
and effectively.

Enforcement and Oversight
Administrators are responsible for ensuring that staff and students comply with
CPS’s GenAI guidelines. Take an active role in enforcing the guidelines, ensuring
that any deviations are addressed promptly and effectively. This includes
implementing corrective actions and disciplinary measures as necessary.

Incident Management
Administrators must be prepared to respond swiftly to any incidents of misuse or
breach of GenAI guidelines. This includes investigating the issue, understanding
the impact, and taking appropriate action to mitigate any negative consequences.
Develop and maintain clear channels for reporting concerns or incidents
related to GenAI use. Ensure that staff and students are aware
of how and when to report issues.

Support and Resources
Ensure that staff have the necessary resources and
training to use GenAI tools effectively and responsibly.
This includes facilitating ongoing professional
development and access to the latest educational
technologies.

AI GUIDEBOOK

29

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for ITS
It’s essential to follow standard software engineering
best practices to minimize potential bias and ensure data
quality in GenAI models. Our teams must adhere to these
practices throughout the development and management
of GenAI software and applications, emphasizing security
at every stage.

Design and Development
Ensure all software is secure by design, free from
vulnerabilities, and continuously evaluated through
testing, patching, and authentication measures.
Maintain AI software and related applications in
a secure, private script repository with version control
to manage changes effectively.

Vulnerability

Regularly update AI software according to
patching standards and adhere to the change
management process for any changes.

Deployment
Test AI software in the QA & development environment
to confirm that all changes meet the required
specifications before deployment in the production
environment.
Implement continuous integration (CI) and continuous
deployment (CD) when possible to automate testing,
deployment, and monitoring.

Incident

All AI software and applications in the
production environment must follow incident
management protocols to handle any issues
that arise.

Management
Ensure that staff have the necessary resources
and training to use GenAI tools effectively and
responsibly. This includes facilitating ongoing
professional development and access to the latest
educational technologies.

AI GUIDEBOOK

Configuration
Maintain AI software within a configuration
management system (CMS), which includes
details on software versions, relationships to
other configuration items, and their locations.

30

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for ITS
Monitoring and Noncompliance
CPS reserves the right to access and monitor the use of AI applications on
any CPS-issued devices or that appear on CPS-managed networks to ensure
compliant use of these systems in accordance with the Staff and Student
Acceptable Use Policies.
Users who fail to comply with any provision of this guidance may be subject
to discipline up to and including termination of employment. Violations by
contractors may be considered a breach of contract and result in removal
from assignment. Any AI-related activities that appear to violate applicable
laws will be reported to external law enforcement.
If monitoring systems and processes detect a possible guideline violation, or
if a User reports a possible guideline violation, the suspect event should be
processed using appropriate security incident response processes.

AI GUIDEBOOK

31

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Vendors
This section outlines the expectations and guidelines
for third-party vendors providing AI and GenAI tools
and services to CPS. Adherence to these guidelines is
crucial for ensuring the responsible, ethical, and secure
integration of these technologies within our educational
environment, aligning with the CPS mission to provide a
high-quality public education.

Tool Approval and Integration
All AI EdTech tools provided by vendors must undergo the same rigorous vetting
and approval process as all EdTech tools used by CPS before they can be used by
students or with student data. Known as the EdTech Request for Qualifications
(RFQ), this process is currently available once a year and vendors can sign up for
notification of future contract opportunities on the CPS Procurement Website.
Approval signifies that the tool meets the District’s standards for privacy, security,
and confidentiality in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local
laws (FERPA, COPPA, SOPPA, etc.) and District policy.
Vendors must provide comprehensive documentation regarding their
tool’s data privacy practices, including how data is collected,
stored, used, and protected. This information will be a key
factor in the approval process.
Vendors should be prepared to provide information
regarding the age appropriateness of their tools,
including any age restrictions outlined in their privacy
policy or terms and conditions.

AI GUIDEBOOK

32

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Vendors
Privacy, Security, and Confidentiality
Vendors must ensure that their AI tools and services are designed and operated
to protect the privacy and security of all CPS stakeholders, including students,
families, and employees.
It is imperative that no personally identifiable information (PII) or protected
health information is collected, stored, or processed in a manner that goes
against CPS guidelines and could compromise the privacy of our stakeholders.
Vendors must ensure that stakeholder information, copyrighted material, or
proprietary CPS intellectual property is not used to train their models without
explicit permission.
Vendors should implement robust security measures to prevent unauthorized
access, data breaches, and misuse of CPS data. Security by design principles
should be followed, with continuous evaluation through testing, patching, and
authentication measures.

Ethical and Responsible Use
Vendors are expected to develop and deploy AI technologies with a steadfast
commitment to fairness, transparency, and accountability.
Efforts should be made to minimize potential bias in AI models, recognizing that
biases in training data can inadvertently perpetuate discrimination, which
is contrary to CPS’ commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Vendors
should strive for algorithmic fairness and be transparent about the potential
for algorithmic bias.
It is critical to address the issue of hallucinations, where AI models produce
false or misleading information. Vendors should have mechanisms in place to
mitigate these inaccuracies and clearly communicate this potential risk to users.
 endors should strive for explainable AI, providing insights into how their
V
systems work and how decisions are made while promoting a human-in-theloop approach, recognizing that human oversight is essential for responsible
and effective AI use.

AI GUIDEBOOK

33

GenAI Guidance

Guidance for Vendors
Support and Collaboration
Vendors are expected to provide adequate support and resources to CPS staff
for the effective and responsible use of their AI tools. This includes providing
training materials, technical support, and ongoing updates.
 endors should maintain open communication channels with CPS to address
V
any concerns, issues, or updates related to their AI offerings. This includes
collaboration with CPS on professional development initiatives related to their
specific tools.

AI GUIDEBOOK

34

III. Approved Generative AI Tools

AI GUIDEBOOK

35

A p p rov e d G e n e ra t i v e A I To o l s

Approved Generative AI Tools
Approved GenAI tools can be found in the Ed Tech Catalog.

AI GUIDEBOOK

36

IV. Professional Development

AI GUIDEBOOK

37

Professional Development

Badge Pathway
The AI Badge Pathway is a structured program designed to deepen
individuals’ understanding of AI and its practical applications within CPS.
Starting with foundational AI principles, the program guides participants to
select appropriate AI tools based on their needs and desired outcomes, all
while emphasizing ethical considerations, bias awareness, and responsible
data practices. Participants learn to develop AI-driven solutions for their
unique challenges, with each badge aligning with CPS’ strategic goals.
Ultimately, the Badge Pathway fosters a shared understanding of AI’s
potential to impact CPS and the wider world.

1

2

3

AI Foundations Badge

AI Explorer Badge

AI Innovator Badge

(SY26 Quarter 2)
+ AI Foundations Badge

(SY26 Quarter 3)
+ AI Explorer Badge
+ AI Foundations Badge

AI GUIDEBOOK

38

Professional Development

Professional Learning Communities
AI Professional Learning Communities (PLCs) are
collaborative groups within CPS where educators and
staff learn, integrate, and grow with AI tools. These
PLCs provide structured spaces for sharing experiences,
discussing challenges, and exchanging best practices
around AI implementation. Participants engage in
ongoing, hands-on learning to develop their AI literacy,
focusing on ethical considerations, data privacy, and
effective usage within CPS’ systems. All stakeholders
are eligible to participate in the PLCs following their
completion of the CPS AI Foundations Badge, ensuring
that everyone has the basic foundational knowledge
necessary to engage in meaningful and impactful
conversations with their peers.
Continuous Support
Ensures continuous support for educators as AI tools evolve, enabling
them to leverage AI for enhanced instruction, streamlined assessments,
and data-informed decisions.
Digital Communities
Leverages digital platforms to foster a culture of shared
knowledge and collective problem-solving to build
confidence and proficiency in AI usage.
Monthly Webinars
Offers monthly webinar-style training sessions to
introduce new AI developments and maintain a
focus on continuous improvement.

AI GUIDEBOOK

39

V. Conclusion

AI GUIDEBOOK

40

Conclusion

Conclusion
As we implement the policies outlined above
throughout the 2024–2025 school year, we will gather
valuable insights and experiences that may prompt us
to refine and adjust our policies and approaches. CPS is
committed to fully integrating GenAI for the 2025–2026
school year. Our implementation of GenAI is guided by
a commitment to ethical use, responsible innovation,
and the continuous improvement of our educational
practices. As we move forward, we will maintain an open
dialogue within our school community, ensuring that our
policies evolve to reflect our collective experiences and
the ever-changing landscape of educational technology.
For additional information, please visit the CPS AI
Guidebook website at cps.edu/aiguidebook.

AI GUIDEBOOK

41

VI. Appendix

AI GUIDEBOOK

42

Appendix

Steering Committee
The educational landscape is rapidly evolving, and CPS is committed to
equipping our students and staff with the tools and knowledge to thrive
in the age of AI. To guide this effort, CPS has established an AI Steering
Committee, a cross-governing body that meets bi-weekly to ensure a holistic
and equitable approach to GenAI across the District. This committee is
dedicated to developing a District-wide framework that provides access to
AI resources for teachers, students, and Central Office departments, all while
prioritizing data security and responsible implementation.
Name

Title

Office/Department

Charles Mayfield

Chief Operating Officer

Chief Operating Office

Miroslava Krug

Chief Financial Officer

Finance

Annise Lewis

Deputy Chief Teaching and Learning

Teaching and Learning

Edward Wagner

Chief Information Technology Officer

Information and Technology Services

Leticia Lopez

Deputy Chief Procurement Officer

Procurement and Contracts

Kimberly Watson

Chief of Staff to the COO

Chief Operating Office

Elizabeth Barton

Managing Deputy General Counsel

Law Office

Arba Houlden

Executive Director, IT Business Partnership and
Innovation

IT Business Partnerships and Innovation

Sree Sundaram

Executive Director, Enterprise Application Services

Enterprise Application Services

Helena SwansonNystrom

Executive Director, Curriculum, Instruction
and Digital Learning

Curriculum, Instruction and Digital Learning

Robert Coonce

Director, Web Services

Web Services

Sarah Siderius

Operations and Initiatives Director

Office of the CIO

Shruti Saxena

Program Director

Talent

Jessica Wright

Executive Assistant

Information and Technology Services

Charlotte Cager

Engagement Specialist Team Lead

Information and Technology Services

Lorne Rodriguez

Manager, Enterprise Generative AI

Information and Technology Services

AI GUIDEBOOK

43

Appendix

Instructional Practice Subcommittee
Chair: Helena Swanson-Nystrom
Name

Title

Office/Department

Alexander Fishman

Digital Learning Design and Instructional GenAI
Manager

Curriculum, Instruction, and Digital
Learning

Angela Sims

Executive Director, T&L Professional Learning

T&L Professional Learning

Carmen Velez

Instructional Support Leader

Network 2

Corey Morrison

Director, Mathematics

STEM Programs

Jane Fleming

Director, Literacy

Literacy

Juman Kekhia

Mgr, OSD Instructional Support

Students with Disabilities

Joseph Olsen

Data Quality Mgmt Team Lead

Early College and Career

Jennifer Brooks

Professional Learning Specialist

Chief Equity Office

Kristan Beck

Director, Computer Science

STEM Programs

Kara Thorstenson

Director, Digital Learning and Libraries

Curriculum, Instruction, and Digital
Learning

M Ari Frede

School CIWP Specialist

Network Support

Michelle Rabkin

Director, Science

STEM Programs

Peter Leonard

Executive Director, Assessment

Student Assessment and MTSS

Scott Topel

Instructional Support Leader

Network 6

Timothy Jackson

Social and Emotional Learning Specialist

Early College and Career

Vivian Redwood

Instructional Support Leader

Network 9

Whitney Carson

EL Instructional Device Specialist

Multicultural/Lingual Education

Yvette Vazquez

Instructional Support Leader

Network 15

AI GUIDEBOOK

44

Appendix

Operational Efficiency Subcommittee
Chair: Shruti Saxena
Name

Title

Office/Department

Alexandra Lopez

Director, Accountability and Engagement

Family and Community Engagement

Antoinette Henley

Director, Central Office Budget Management

Budget and Management Office

Bryan Forero

Director, Procurement Category Management

Procurement and Contracts

Chinuotu Wonuigwe

Director, Transport Diverse Learner

Student Transportation

Deivi Aguilar

Principal

Alexander Graham School

Ebany Guerra

Audit Associate

Internal Audit and Advisory Service

Edith Juarez

Office Manager

Student Protections/Title IX

Grace Solomon

Assistant General Counsel

Law Office

Hilda Flores

Executive Director, Payroll Services

Payroll Services

Jose Prieto

Financial Compliance Manager

Accounting

Jessica Morris

Director, IT Business Partnership

IT Business Partnerships and
Innovation

Kandace Stallings

Social and Emotional Lrng Spec

Early College and Career

Kimberly Watson

Chief of Staff to the COO

Chief Operating Office

Leslie Kniskern

Senior Project Manager

Talent Office

Samantha Semrow

Project Manager

Planning and Data Management

AI GUIDEBOOK

45

Appendix

Development, Data Management, and
Analytics Subcommittee
Chair: Robert Coonce
Name

Title

Office/Department

Alahrie Aziz-Sims

Principal

Bogan HS

Agnes Juarez

Instructional Support Leader

Network 8

Chiranjeevi Galla

SQL Server DBA Manager

Web Services

Deepa Govind

Manager, Web Development

Web Services

Davis Jedd

Audit Associate

Internal Audit and Advisory Service

Guadalupe Blanco

Data Strategist

City Wide Early Childhood

Gregory Edwards

Senior Software Engineer

Web Services

Jordan Radford

Assistant General Counsel

Law Office

Kelly Rosiles-Villagomez

Senior Data Analyst

Students with Disabilities

Kishasha Ford

Director, Local School Council Relations

Family and Community Engagement

Patrick Kelly

Instructional Support Leader

Network 9

Robert Coonce

Director, Web Services

Web Services

Annette Wallace

Software Engineer

Web Services

Steven Vega

Senior Software Engineer

Web Services

Tihomir Canji

Manager, Web Production

Web Services

Zahra Naqi-Hasnain

Data Strategist

Chief Equity Office

AI GUIDEBOOK

46

School Leader AI Coalition

Appendix

Co-Chairs: Casey Fuess, Althea Hammond, Alexander
Zalar
Name

Title

Office/Department

Alexander Zalar

Principal

Ernst Prussing School

Alexandra Dakessian

Assistant Principal

John T Mccutcheon School

Althea Hammond

Principal

Ambrose Plamondon School

Andrea Kulas

Assistant Principal

Peace and Education Coalition

Barton Dassinger

Principal

Cesar Chavez Multicultural Academy

Casey Fuess

Assistant Principal

Virtual Academy

Christopher Graves

Principal

Jordan Community School

Clarisa Bravo-Ruiz

Assistant Principal

Sidney Sawyer School

Eileen Scanlan-Peterson

Principal

George Cassell Elementary

Javier Arriola-Lopez

Principal

Rachel Carson Elementary

Jeff Finelli

Principal

Edison Park Elementary

Jessica Johnson

Principal

Manuel Perez Elementary

Kamilah Hampton

Principal

Richard J Daley Academy

Latisha Dillard

Assistant Principal

John L Marsh School

Leonel Gallegos

Assistant Principal

Roger C Sullivan High School

Melissa Resh

Principal

Wildwood IB World Magnet

Rachael Carnacchio

Principal

Abraham Lincoln School

Rhea Bush

Principal

Mark Skinner School

Shontell Smith

Principal

Joseph Warren School

Terri Kelly

Assistant Principal

Thomas Drummond School

Tonya Weatherly

Principal

Martha M Ruggles School

Virag Nanavati

Principal

David G Farragut Career Academy

Yadira Guzman

Principal

John Greenleaf Whittier School

Zachary Korth

Principal

Morton School of Excellence

AI GUIDEBOOK

47

Appendix

Glossary
A

B

Algorithm: A set of step-by-step instructions that a Bias: When an AI system unfairly favors certain
computer follows to complete a task.
groups or produces results that are prejudiced.
This can happen if the data used to train the AI is
Algorithmic Bias: This refers to the potential for AI
incomplete or reflects existing biases in society.
systems to perpetuate or amplify existing biases due
to biased training data or flawed algorithms, resulting
C
in unfair or discriminatory outcomes.
Chain-of-Thought (COT) Prompting: A prompting
Artificial Intelligence (AI): The ability of a computer strategy that asks an AI tool to think step-by-step,
or machine to mimic human intelligence (e.g., learn, which can produce a better result for logical and
reason, solve problems).
mathematical reasoning tasks.
AI Ethics: Guidelines for developing and using AI
in a responsible and ethical way, ensuring fairness, D
Data: Information, such as facts, numbers, and text,
safety, and respect for everyone.
that is used to train AI systems.
AI Literacy: Involves the knowledge, skills, and
attitudes necessary to interact with AI in a safe and Dataset: A large collection of organized information
effective way. This includes understanding how AI (like text, images, or numbers) used to train an AI
works, recognizing its potential benefits and risks, model.
evaluating AI systems for bias and fairness, and Data Privacy: Protecting the personally identifiable
developing the skills to use AI tools effectively and information (PII) of students, teachers, and families
critically in teaching and learning responsibly.
when using digital tools, including AI tools.
 I Model: A computer program trained on a dataset
A
to recognize patterns and perform specific tasks.

Digital Citizenship: Responsible and ethical use of
technology, encompassing online safety, privacy,
AI Safety: Measures taken to ensure AI systems critical thinking, and respectful interactions in the
are used in ways that prevent harm to individuals digital world.
or society. This can encompass data privacy, bias
E
mitigation, and responsible development.
Explainable AI: AI systems should be designed
AI Tool: AI-powered software that can automate or in a way that allows students and educators to
assist users with a variety of tasks (e.g., AI-powered understand how they work and how decisions are
writing assistants, tutoring programs, or assessment made. This includes providing clear explanations
tools).
of the factors considered and the logic used in the
decision-making process.

AI GUIDEBOOK

48

Appendix

Glossary
F

M

G

N

Few-Shot Prompting: A prompting strategy that
includes two or more examples of the desired input
and output.

Generative AI (GenAI): A type of AI that can create
new content, such as text, images, music, or code.

H

 achine Learning (ML): A subset of AI focused on
M
developing computer programs that can analyze
data to make decisions or predictions.

Natural Language Processing (NLP): A field of AI
that enables machines to understand, interpret, and
generate human language.

Hallucination: Any inaccurate or misleading output O
from an AI tool. These can be presented as facts by One-Shot Prompting: A prompting strategy that
the AI tool, further elevating the need to properly vet includes one example of the desired input and output.
the outputs before using them more broadly.
Output: The information or creative work that an
Human-in-the-Loop: An understanding that AI tool produces after it is prompted, such as an
humans should always be involved in the AI answer to a question, a text summary, an image,
process, providing guidance, feedback, or making or a piece of music.
final decisions to ensure the AI is used responsibly
and effectively.
P
Prompt: The method for interacting with an AI tool
in the form of a request, question, snippet, or an
example.

I

I nternal GenAI: These are restricted for use
within a specific organization or domain and
Public GenAI: These tools are available for anyone to
may require payment. One example is Google’s
use on the internet, such as Gemini Chat, ChatGPT,
Gemini Enterprise, which is an add-on for Google
Claude, or Perplexity.
Workspace.

R

L

Reinforcement Learning: A type of ML that provides
Large Language Model (LLM): An AI model that is
feedback to a program to improve its decisions
trained on large amounts of text to identify patterns
over time.
between words, concepts, and phrases in order to
generate effective responses to prompts.

AI GUIDEBOOK

49

Appendix

Glossary
S

Supervised Learning: A type of ML that uses
labeled datasets to train a program to recognize
patterns in data.

T

Transparency: Being open and honest about
how AI systems are trained and how they work to
students, families, and the community, including
being clear about when and how AI is used in the
classroom.

U

Unsupervised Learning: A type of ML that uses
unlabeled datasets to allow a program to identify
patterns in data without a specific output in mind.

V

Vendor GenAI: This type of GenAI is provided by
third-party vendors which CPS may contract with to
ensure data handling and usage align with District
standards and policies. It is important for CPS to
carefully vet any vendors to ensure alignment with
District values and data privacy standards.

Z

Zero-Shot Prompting: A prompting strategy that
doesn’t include any examples about the desired
input and output.

AI GUIDEBOOK

50

Appendix

Version History
Version 5.0

Updated August 2025
Edits
Fixed Broken links & minor formatting issues

Version 4.0

Updated July 2025
Edits
Updated guide to adhere to accessibility standards including ensuring
correct color contrast, increasing minimum type size, configuring paragraph
styles for correct header and paragraph tagging, adding alt text to images,
tagging design elements as artifacts, tagging and formatting tables for
screen readers, increasing footer type size, and adding paragraph spacing
into styling.
Reconfigured some layouts, images, and design elements to be more
consistent across the document.
Added School Leader AI Coalition table to appendix

Version 3.0

Updated May 2025
New Sections
Our AI Principles, AI Literacy, Guidance for Vendors, AI Subcommittees
Edits
Steering Committee: Introduction and and member details
Badge Pathway
AI Explorer: SY25 Quarter 3 to SY25 Quarter 4
AI Innovator: SY25 Quarter 4 to SY26 Quarter 1

AI GUIDEBOOK

51

Appendix

Version History
Version 2.0

Updated January 2025
Removals
Guidance for Educators & Staff
Entire section: Ongoing Professional Development
Additions
AI Guidance: Privacy, Security, and Confidentiality
Always inform others when using GenAI tools that may impact their data
and request their permission before doing so (i.e. meeting notetakers).
New Sections
Guidance for Parents/Guardians
Professional Development
Appendix
Edits
Guidance for Educators and Staff
Tool (company)

No Access
Under 18

Gemini (Google)

Under 13

Parental Consent

No Permission Needed

No access under 18
Parental consent must be obtained for students 18+
13–17

Version 1.0

Updated July 2024

AI GUIDEBOOK

52

cps.edu
Version 5.0, last updated August 2025

